Selenium Grid is a part of the Selenium Suite which specializes in running multiple tests across different browsers, operating systems, and machines in parallel. It uses the hub-and-node concept. Here's how it works:

Hub: This is the central point where you load your tests into. The Hub acts as a server, a central point to control the network of test machines. The Selenium Grid has only one hub and it is the master of the network.

Nodes: These are the test machines that connect to the hub. Each node is typically a different machine or a different browser version, or a different operating system. Each node registers with the hub. When tests are sent to the hub, it decides which nodes to use based on the requirements of the test scripts (like browser type, version, or operating system).

Running Tests in Parallel: The main advantage of Selenium Grid is its ability to run tests in parallel across different machines and browsers. This significantly reduces the time for test execution and provides quick feedback to developers.

Cross-Browser Testing: It enables cross-browser testing by allowing tests to run on various browser and operating system combinations.

Scalability: Selenium Grid can scale horizontally, meaning you can increase your test execution capacity by simply adding more nodes to the grid.

Integration with Selenium WebDriver: Selenium Grid is often used in conjunction with Selenium WebDriver for automating browser actions.

Selenium Grid is particularly useful in Continuous Integration pipelines where quick feedback on large test suites is crucial. It helps in maximizing test coverage while minimizing test execution time.

Sauce Labs:

Using Sauce Labs to run Selenium scripts involves integrating your Selenium tests with the Sauce Labs cloud platform. 
This allows you to run your tests on a wide range of browser and OS combinations without needing to maintain your own grid of browsers and devices. 

Here's a basic guide on how to do this:

1. Create a Sauce Labs Account: First, sign up for a Sauce Labs account if you don't already have one. You will receive access credentials which are necessary for running your Selenium tests on their platform.

2. Set Up Your Selenium Script: Write your Selenium test script as you normally would. You can use any major programming language that Selenium supports like Java, Python, C#, etc.

3. Configure Selenium to Use Sauce Labs: In your test script, instead of setting up to run on a local browser, you need to configure it to run on a remote browser in the Sauce Labs cloud. 
This is done by setting desired capabilities and the Sauce Labs URL in your Selenium script. The desired capabilities will include the browser, browser version, operating system, and any other Sauce Labs-specific settings you want to apply.


DesiredCapabilities capabilities = new DesiredCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("browserName", "chrome");
capabilities.setCapability("platform", "Windows 10");
capabilities.setCapability("version", "latest");
capabilities.setCapability("username", "YOUR_SAUCE_USERNAME");
capabilities.setCapability("accessKey", "YOUR_SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY");

WebDriver driver = new RemoteWebDriver(new URL("https://ondemand.saucelabs.com/wd/hub"), capabilities);
Replace "YOUR_SAUCE_USERNAME" and "YOUR_SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY" with your Sauce Labs credentials.

Run Your Test: Execute your test script. The script will communicate with the Sauce Labs servers, and the tests will be executed remotely on the platform.

View Test Results: Once your test has finished running, you can view the results on the Sauce Labs dashboard. This includes logs, screenshots, and video recordings of the test.

Advanced Features: Sauce Labs provides several advanced features like parallel testing, Sauce Connect Proxy for testing private networks, and integration with CI/CD pipelines.